Hi, I am Michalis,
and this is “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
One challenge that often makes me nervous
is when I’ve prepared an introduction
and I’ve planned the conversation
but the householder doesn’t follow the plan
and I have to adapt.
Have you ever had that experience?
This could mean
that what we prepared just won’t work.
So we are going to discuss four tips
that have helped me and hopefully
will help you be more adaptable.
The four tips are
(1) know your territory,
(2) make use of the Teaching Toolbox,
(3) anticipate
common objections or questions,
and (4) be flexible
and adjust to the householder’s needs,
because remember,
this is meant to be a conversation,
not a sermon or a sales pitch.
Now, let’s look at a situation
where applying
these four suggestions can help.
So, what introduction are you using?
I thought I would talk
about economic problems.
Mm.
Good idea!
It really suits the territory.
Thanks.
I’ll read Isaiah 65:21-23
and then offer the Kingdom  tract.
Perfect.
I’ll get the scripture ready.
Excellent.
Good morning.
Many people in our area
struggle to make ends meet.
Do you think there will ever be a time
when we won’t have to stress about money?
Actually, now isn’t a good time.
I just received some bad news.
I’m sorry.
We’ll come back another time then.
Thank you.
OK.
Our sister applied
our first two tips really well.
But our sisters are usually excellent
when it comes to the ministry
so no real surprises there.
Did you notice?
First, she knew her territory well
and had a presentation
designed specifically for it.
Second, her scripture and talking point
were taken from the tract
What Is the Kingdom of God?,
which, as you know,
is part of our Teaching Toolbox.
However, when the householder
had something else on her mind,
our sister opted to return later.
That could be a good decision
in this kind of situation,
but let’s see what would happen
if she were to ask just one more question
and adapt according
to the householder’s response.
Actually, now isn’t a good time.
I just received some bad news.
I’m sorry.
Is there anything we can do to help?
No.
I, uh, I- I just heard
that my sister has cancer.
Oh, that must be so difficult
for your sister
and for you!
Yes, when someone we love is suffering,
we can often feel helpless.
That’s exactly how I feel.
If you have a moment,
could I show you something
that I find comforting
about a time in the near future
when our loved ones will never suffer again?
Hmm, I’d like that.
Notice what the Bible says
at Revelation 21:3, 4:
“With that I heard a loud voice
from the throne say . . .”
Wow!
Did you see how she was able
to offer this woman real comfort
just by being adaptable?
All it took was one simple question,
Is there anything we can do to help?
She was sincere and friendly,
and the householder responded.
At that point,
our sister applied our third tip.
She obviously was familiar
with some common anxieties
of ones in that territory
because she smoothly transitioned
to the topic of suffering,
which allowed her to listen
to the householder’s real concern
and then implement our fourth tip.
She adjusted to meet those needs.
Plus, she didn’t struggle
to find information to use.
She stayed right there
in her Teaching Toolbox.
Granted, not every situation
will be as straightforward as this,
and it takes time and experience
to get comfortable moving
from one topic to another.
But if we apply our four tips:
know your territory,
make use of the Teaching Toolbox,
try to anticipate
common objections or questions,
and then adjust to the householder’s needs,
by applying these,
we’ll find very quickly
that we are having meaningful conversations
and are able to share targeted truths
with those most in need.
As always, these are just a few techniques
that have worked for me,
and I hope they work for you.
Remember, part of the beauty of our ministry
is that we continue to sharpen one another.